hi I'm busy at the moment and I don't
really have time to do this but I want
to put a short response video concerning
a current controversy between
Thunderfoot and the author Richard
carrier if you don't know who
Thunderfoot is he's a bit of an internet
legend some of his videos are carefully
constructed scientific commentaries some
are experiments some are instead social
and political commentaries some of it is
very carefully reasoned and formally
presented and some of it is completely
informal improvised spur-of-the-moment
commentary if you don't know who Richard
Currier is the other half of this
controversy don't worry I'm going to go
over his CV in just a moment in response
to the criticism that Thunderfoot posed
towards so 18 minutes into a free
ranging informal discussion the full
wing interchange with Thunderfoot
transpired quote all of his academic
work is self-published isn't it so the
first person has suggested that all of
Richard carriers academic work is self
published to this Thunderfoot replies
yeah in terms of even calling himself an
academic would be I think technically he
does have a PhD doesn't he I can't
remember
he calls himself doctor but I'm not
quite sure what the hell he's a doctor
of but for certain in terms of being a
research academic or anything like that
it's a complete non-starter let's not
make any excuses for Thunderfoot here
Richard carriers academic credentials
you can find through Google in about 5
seconds you can find his list of
publications and who they've been
published with in the same 5 seconds I
got a copy of his CV which contains both
Here I am 10 seconds later making this
video
Richard carriers CV actually tells the
life story of a pretty
interesting unconventional guy he does
have a PhD he has a PhD from Columbia
University which is a real respectable
University and his dissertation was on
attitudes towards the natural
philosopher in the early Roman Empire he
does have a list of respectable and
respected publications although he also
has informal articles in informal
magazines and of course websites one of
his major accomplishments in life was
learning ancient Greek including the
study of manuscript ancient Greek
so-called pathology and paleography in
terms of the challenges that Richard
carrier is now facing some of which he
reflects on in his own lectures some of
which are left up to her imagination a
little bit um he's a historian who is
artfully critical of Christianity as it
actually exists today and also in every
historical period that's documented
and yet he's struggling to publish his
research in Christian academic
publications nevertheless by large he
succeeds despite the very real bias
against him that the editors will have
just give one example out of his CV that
leaps out at me
he recently in 2014 published an article
on quote the prospect of a Christian
interpolation in Tacitus the animals of
Tacitus and that was published in a
journal called vigil II Christianity if
you look at that journal you will not be
surprised to find the editors and people
of control of it are generally people
with degrees in Christian theology
teaching Christian subjects at Christian
universities so for Richard Currier as
someone who's not just an atheist but an
atheist activist to be advancing you
know his own career step by step in the
face of tremendous hostility from a you
know field of study that isn't just
dominated by true believing Christians
but is created by and for them is a
really tough uphill struggle even if
that were not the case it's by no means
unusual that Richard carrier is
basically unemployed after
his ph.d in 2008 if you don't think
that's normal
you don't know many people with PhDs in
the humanities haha look don't get a PhD
in religious studies
I've spent whatever the last 15 years of
my life avoided getting a PhD in
religious studies it's one of the
reasons where I want to look at Richard
carrier CV I have a lot of sympathy for
both what his stated struggles have been
and what some of his unstated struggles
must have been in choosing to take the
path he's taken in life just a couple of
weeks ago I met with a professor who was
urging me to get a PhD in religious
studies and I said no I don't want to be
unemployed for 10 years and I also don't
want to be unemployed for the rest of my
life um throughout Asia I met people
with PhDs in history religion and other
humanities who were either completely
unemployed or working as English
teachers in Beijing Bangkok you name it
the world is covered with underemployed
brokenhearted people with PhDs the
humanities compared to that unenviable
lot in life
Richard carrier has done quite alright
for himself as an independent
intellectual yes he does have some
self-published books he does go on some
self-promoted lecture tours he does post
videos to YouTube and so on to promote
his name and promote his research
certainly nobody could fault him for
that least of all somebody like
Thunderfoot now my point here is not to
glorify the work of Richard carrier
however Thunderfoot is somebody who
likes to have a lot of opinions about
what the Bible says what the Bible
doesn't say and that is not at all
Thunder foots own area of academic
expertise and it is exactly the area
that Richard carrier has a PhD in that
he's an acknowledged expert in even if
he is a controversial expert with whom
other theologians disagree naturally the
vast majority people who have a degree
in theology are biased against Richard
carrier because they're either not
atheist or at least are politely
avoiding the type of open politic
controversy that Richard carrier
actually encourages the background to
this controversy is that Richard carrier
made Richard carrier wrote a blog post
attacking Thunderfoot at Great Lengths
full of at home and remarks claiming
that Thunderfoot was a sociopath and a
narcissist and providing a lengthy
rationale for this from my perspective
that's embarrassing and it's shameful
and I think Richard carrier should
apologize and retract it or delete it
however I also think that the statement
just made by Thunderfoot is something he
should apologize for and retract and
it's shameful and unfair and untrue for
me it's slightly hilarious to see this
controversy in this case Thunderfoot is
attacking Richard carrier by
disregarding his CV disregarding his
accomplishments disregarding his
credentials and claiming that Richard
carrier is not an academic hilariously
my own experience is the opposite in
that I have been always clarifying for
people that I am NOT an academic and
people have attacked me for being an
academic that may be a unique problem in
Asian Studies and in Buddhist studies
and so on my reasons for sympathizing
with Richard carrier are twofold firstly
my own experience the Asian Studies
makes me really aware of the type of
bias for Richard carrier is struggling
against I know that it's nearly
impossible to be a skeptic of Buddhism
and to be published in Buddhist studies
journals that includes some absurd
experiences in which the editors of the
journals not only praised my work while
apologising that they couldn't publish
it in one case the editor of a journal
he actually invited me to become a PhD
student at his university while
rejecting the article that he apologized
Dean he couldn't publish even if it was
excellent and I wanted the University
but that that is a very prestigious
university it's in the worldwide top ten
it's it's one of those expensive and
overrated universities and of course
among my reasons for you know saying no
thanks for declining that offer
was of course that I don't want to end
up like richer care here I don't want to
spend years of my life and a huge amount
of money getting a diploma that will
then even in the best case area result
in sitting around unemployed or semi
employed for many years if you've known
a lot of people with PhDs in the
humanities what you'll find is that it's
routine for them to either be completely
without a job after they finished a
diploma or for them to get some kind of
position on paper you know they're
listed as a research fellow they have
some unpaid vaguely defined position at
a university so that it doesn't look
like they're unemployed and then for
many years they're doing independent
research writing articles and living
with the hope that one day a formal
academic position will open up for them
obviously for someone like Richard
carrier whose expertise is in ancient
Christianity the vast majority of those
jobs will go to people who are pro
Christian um likewise the vast majority
of universities that are funding
research on Buddhism are looking for
someone who's an uncritical advocate of
Buddhism and let's be honest someone who
can do fundraising to raise money from
Buddhist charities to support their
academic program and Buddhism almost
nobody is interested in the type of open
roll-up-your-sleeves critique of
religion that Richard carrier engages in
so as I say he's chosen a very difficult
path himself the second reason I would
state for my having respect for Richard
carrier despite some of the frankly
ridiculous things he has said on the
internet uh is that Richard Kerr himself
is pretty honest about the fact that
he's an eccentric um how eccentric is
Richard carrier well he talks about his
own life he used to be in the US
coast guard nothing wrong with that if
anything that probably makes them a much
more interesting dinner companion or got
to have a conversation with you as years
of experience getting his certificate as
a flight deck firefighter and a duty
Gunners maid and because of things in
the US Coast Guard
interesting guys lived an interesting
life he has mentioned in his lectures
that he's actually not an ex Christian
he connected down West at some point in
his youth he converted to Taoism and was
fairly enthusiastic about that religious
practices and then he had a loss of
faith coming out of that and then had a
renewed interest in and engagement with
religious studies um being an eccentric
doesn't excuse the things that he has
said and done it doesn't excuse his
somewhat ridiculous ad hominem attacks
on Thunderfoot and Thunderfoot has every
right to be offended however I've got to
tell you as eccentrics go I've seen
worse as academics go I've seen worse
and that's the ultimate irony about
Thunderfoot attacking Richard carrier
for supposedly not being an academic
tragically this whole discourse is all
too typical for exactly the type of
people academics are and what they do
during the long years between when they
finish their PhD and get a formal
academic position
you